Chapter number 12.
And a couple of people have asked me recently,
are we gonna get to the book of Revelation?
And Lord willing, that will be next Sunday evening
that we'll return to the book of Revelation.
And as we entered into 2026, had a few things on my heart
that I wanted to be able to share with us
as a church family with regard to some things on Wednesday,
some things on Sunday.
And so we've had some opportunity to be able to do that.
And for two weeks here on Sunday evenings in 2026,
and I've not preached all the Sunday evenings in 2026.
Of course, we were snowed out one week
and I was in traveling one week.
And then we had brother Tim preached
one of the Sunday nights.
We just had some things going on.
And, but I've had the opportunity to preach two messages
that I entitled, Even So, Minister.
And as we looked at those particular messages,
we're looking at the truth of 1 Peter 4,
verses 10 and 11,
understanding that we've been given a spiritual gift
and the importance of understanding spiritual gifts,
biblically, what the Bible speaks of
with regard to spiritual gifts.
And then having the understanding that,
okay, God said that every man hath received the gift.
And so therefore I have a spiritual gift.
If I'm saved, I've been gifted, I've been equipped.
And what is my spiritual gift
and how do I use my spiritual gift?
And really that's been the thought for those two messages
we've studied through a variety of passages of scripture.
Now, this evening,
as we come to 1 Samuel chapter number 12,
I'm gonna deal with this subject
that I've simply titled from the passage of scripture,
Serve the Lord.
Now, the reality is that there's a lot of passages
I could go to and preach a message entitled, Serve the Lord.
And we find that there's a theme throughout the scriptures,
not only in the Old Testament,
but also in the New Testament,
that we are to serve the Lord.
In fact, maybe you've heard somebody say it this way,
that we've been saved to serve.
You ever hear somebody say that, use that terminology?
No doubt from Ephesians chapter number two,
when you get to verse number 10,
we are his workmanship, amen.
And we're created unto good works.
And we understand we don't do good works to get saved,
we don't do good works to stay saved,
but because we've been saved,
because of the work that he's done in our lives,
then we become his servants.
And what a joy it is to serve the Lord.
As you come to 1 Samuel chapter number 12,
I would say this, the life of Samuel is a life
that is just worth studying.
I mean, so many wonderful, valuable lessons
that you can learn as you study through the life of Samuel.
And a couple of years ago in Sunday school,
we did a series through the life of Samuel
and looked at a number of things
that were just so important for us
to learn from the scriptures.
God has recorded it for us,
not simply so that we would have the historical account,
but so that we could take truth and apply it in our lives
so that we could be challenged in our own walk with God.
And so we come here to 1 Samuel chapter number 12,
we understand that Samuel, if you were to look back,
and we won't take time to do so,
but Samuel is the direct result of fervent prayer, amen.
Hannah prayed fervently, she prayed for a son,
she prayed fervently, she prayed specifically,
and God answered her prayer.
And she made a promise and that promise
was that she would give her son back to the Lord
and she made good on the promise that she made to God.
And here's something that I find in life
and there are times in which people deal
with a particular situation, a circumstance,
maybe it's a physical malady,
some difficulty that they're facing,
they'll say, God, if you just take this away,
then I'll serve you with my life.
You ever hear somebody make
some kind of declaration like that?
Oh, that's a dangerous thing, it's a dangerous thing.
I know a lot of people that have made commitments,
vows, if we could even use that word,
in that fashion and God worked and God delivered
and God did and then they just went and did their own thing
and that's a terrible, terrible situation.
And we find that Hannah gave her son back to the Lord
as she promised to do so and you read through
the book of 1 Samuel and you have wonderful opportunities
to read of the life and ministry of Samuel.
You don't read of his death until 1 Samuel 25,
so there are a whole lot of things that happen
in Samuel's life even after this portion of scripture
that we'll look at in 1 Samuel chapter number 12,
but really if we look at chapter number 12,
we see some things as God would provide for us
and I wanna get specifically to the subject
of serving the Lord, but we find in the first several verses,
verses one through five, that Samuel begins
to recall his own ministry.
Notice what he says in verse one.
He says, and Samuel said unto all Israel,
so he gathers the people, he begins to speak to them.
By the way, this was something that happened
on more than one occasion.
He says, behold, I have hearkened unto your voice
and all that you have said unto me
and have made a king over you.
God was their king, they had a theocracy
and they wanted a king, they wanted a human king
and the scriptures tell us they desired
to be like the other nations.
Amen?
And of course, Samuel disgrieved him.
He was grieved in his heart at the request of the people
and God said, no, they've not rejected you,
they've rejected me and give them a king
and we know that the first king is Saul
and he'd be anointed to be the king
and we find that Samuel says, I've done.
I have hearkened unto your voice, I've hearkened
to their voice, but obviously the voice of God
and verse two, and now behold, the king walketh before you
and I am old and gray headed and behold,
my sons are with you and I have walked before you
from my childhood unto this day.
You begin to think about Samuel kind of recalling
his own ministry and even in making that statement
in verse number two to end the verse
that I have walked before you from my childhood
unto this day, how that simple statement covers
so many years and so many things that God used Samuel
to accomplish in just a summary statement,
but we understand that Samuel was known
as being a man of God.
The man of God is in this city.
You'll read that, man, what a powerful truth
and the influence and impact that he had
and then we find in verses six through 12
that Samuel would begin to rehearse the works of God.
In fact, in verse six, notice it says,
and Samuel said unto the people,
it is the Lord that advanced Moses and Aaron
and that brought your fathers up out of the land
of Egypt, I like that little phrase, it is the Lord.
Listen, it wasn't Moses and Aaron,
it wasn't their skill, their wisdom,
it was God that was working.
In verse seven, now therefore stand still
that I may reason with you before the Lord.
Notice what the Bible says, of all the righteous acts
of the Lord, which he did to you and to your fathers.
Oh, the number of things that could be rehearsed
as you begin to think about what God did for his people
and how God worked on the behalf of his people
and then as we go through the text
and again, I'm getting to the end of it here
because in verses 13 through 25,
we find that what Samuel does is he reminds the people
to serve the Lord.
Now, it's interesting for he said, as we read already
in verse number two, that I am old and gray-headed.
We understand that Samuel will not die
for several more chapters in the book of 1 Samuel
but no doubt, his place in scripture, if you will,
begins to fade as you begin to see the dominance
of Saul and David and so on and so forth
as you read through the book of 1 Samuel
and yes, when David is fleeing from Saul,
he goes to Samuel, he goes to the man of God
and what a great decision that was
but you begin to see how the lens of scripture,
if you will, that had been so fixated on the life
and ministry of Samuel begins to shift
and Samuel says, I'm old and I'm gray-headed
and he stands before Israel and he reminds them
of the importance of serving the Lord.
Now, why do I say all of that?
Because I'm reminded of Joshua at the end
of the book of Joshua when he was used of God.
The Bible tells us that Joshua was Moses' minister.
He was a man that knew how to serve God.
He was a man that served the Lord faithfully.
By the way, he was, I believe and I would argue
that Joshua was chosen by God to be the next human leader
of the nation of Israel because he was already serving.
He was already doing, he was already serving,
he was already engaged in the work.
It wasn't that God went and found somebody
that was just on the sideline somewhere doing nothing,
having no part and said, yeah, I think
they'll be the next leader.
No, he was already serving.
He was already engaged, he was already involved
and we find that Joshua, after you go through
the entire book of Joshua and the record that is given
with the conquering of the land
and the division of the land and you find
that Joshua does something very similar.
At the end of the book of Joshua, he calls the people.
He's gonna challenge them and we're familiar.
In fact, Brianna mentioned at lunch
that recently a chapel speaker there at Vision
asked the question, how many of you at your homes
have a plaque or a sign that says,
as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord.
And I asked her, I said, is it almost everybody
in the college student body that raised their hand?
And she said, yeah, I mean, maybe somebody didn't,
but it sure seemed like everyone raised their hand.
And many of us this evening, we may have a placard,
a hanging, a painting of something in our home
that says, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord.
And Joshua made that declaration,
but understand that Joshua also challenged
the people of Israel to serve the Lord.
We come here to 1 Samuel chapter 12
and we understand that Samuel now
understanding the way in which things
are transitioning and all that's taking place
and this opportunity to have the nation before him
and to address them and to challenge them.
He says in v. 14,
"...if ye will fear the Lord..."
Notice the first reference.
"...and serve Him,
and obey His voice,
and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord,
then shall both ye and also the king
that reigneth over you
continue following the Lord your God."
Skip down to v. 20 if you will.
The Bible says, "...and Samuel said unto the people,
Fear not, you have done all this wickedness,
yet turn not aside from following the Lord..."
Notice this.
"...but serve the Lord..."
Notice what it says.
"...with all your heart."
No half-hearted service.
I mean, it's serve the Lord with all your heart.
Aren't you thankful that Jesus gave it all?
Amen?
Often we sing the song,
Jesus paid it all,
and certainly He did.
I'm thankful.
Listen, He didn't just make a down payment.
You know what a down payment is?
A down payment means you still got a responsibility
to pay the rest of it.
Amen?
You ever go buy a car
and they say, you're down payment,
and then they say, here's the rest of your payments,
we'll split them up by the month,
and we'll do it for 180 months
or whatever they say, right?
I mean, they just want to finance it longer
and longer and longer and longer.
Why?
Because they make more and more and more money.
No, no.
He paid it all.
And here Samuel says,
"...serve the Lord with all your heart."
V. 23, "...moreover, as for me,
God forbid that I should sin against the Lord
in ceasing to pray for you,
but I will teach you the good
and the right way.
Only fear the Lord
and serve Him in truth."
Here you see it again,
"...with all your heart."
And then he says this,
"...for consider how great things
He hath done for you."
Now, I want to remind you
that as we've just kind of jumped through
1 Samuel chapter number 12,
we didn't read the entirety of it,
but I want to remind you
that Samuel said in verse number seven
that he was going to reason with them
and he was going to declare to them
all the righteous acts of the Lord.
And then in verse 24,
after he said,
I will teach you the good and the right way,
he says, "...only fear the Lord
and serve Him in truth with all your heart,
for consider how great things
He hath done for you."
He had just previously reminded them,
rehearsed for them
various acts, righteous acts of the Lord,
wonderful things that God did on their behalf.
And for us this evening,
as we begin to consider the wonderful things,
the great things that He's done for us,
we sang already this evening
about a wonderful Savior,
the last song that we sang,
but then we talked about heaven came down
and glory filled my soul
and reminding ourselves of that great day
that Jesus saved us.
I mean, listen,
that is at the top of each of our lives
when we consider the great things
He hath done for me as an individual,
He saved my soul.
We find that Samuel is challenging the people of God
to serve the Lord.
In Psalm 100 and verse number two,
the Bible tells us to serve the Lord with gladness.
And we understand the importance of that.
We find in Psalm 84,
take your Bible actually and turn to Psalm 84
and read a couple of verses for you.
And what a blessing to think about the truth
of the challenge to serve the Lord.
In Psalm 84 in verse number nine,
the Bible says,
behold, oh God, our shield
and look upon the face of thine anointed.
For a day in thy court
is better than a thousand.
I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God
than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.
For the Lord God is a son and shield.
The Lord will give grace and glory.
No good thing will he withhold from them
that walk uprightly.
Oh, Lord of hosts,
blessed is the man that trusteth in thee.
I mean, I want you to consider the perspective
of the psalmist in verse number 10
when he said a day in thy court is better than a thousand.
And he says, I had rather be a doorkeeper
in the house of my God
than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.
I'm thankful that God saved my soul.
God called me to the place of being a pastor
and I'm thankful for that calling.
And by the way,
that's not something that you just kind of sign up for.
If you've not been called to be engaged
in that type of ministry,
you have no business being in that type of ministry.
And it is a great privilege.
I mean, it is an overwhelming responsibility
to think about the call that God would place on us.
But I begin to think about that service.
And sometimes if we're not careful,
I think, well, that's kind of beneath me.
No, the psalmist says,
I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God.
I mean, just listen about the privilege
that God would give us to serve him.
The king of kings and Lord of lords,
the one who created all things,
that owns all things, that has all power,
that he would save us
and then he would allow us to serve him.
This evening, as I go through some verses of scripture,
and we look at some other portions,
I want you to think about two main thoughts.
And I'm not gonna preach it like I normally do
with a point and then some verses and other points
on and so forth.
But I want you to think about these two principles
this evening.
When we talk about serving God,
I would say this, number one, serving God is a privilege.
And then number two, serving God is a responsibility.
And there's a difference between a responsibility
and a privilege.
But the reality is that serving God is both.
We do have a responsibility to serve the Lord.
And we are going to be accountable for the gift
that he's given to us.
Remember last week, we spoke about the fact
that we wanna be good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
And Paul says in 1 Corinthians,
that God's grace was not bestowed on him in vain.
And we talked about that last week.
And we find the responsibility of serving the Lord.
But then I'm reminded about the privilege
of serving the Lord.
I mean, what an absolute privilege that God has given to us
to be able to serve him.
And really to serve him in any capacity
that he'd give us the opportunity.
I mean, it's just an absolute privilege.
And I want you to think about some things this evening
as we go through and look at some principles
that I hope to be able to kind of connect some dots
from Old Testament to New Testament
and help us to understand that this truth
of serving the Lord is something
that we need to be focused on
and something that we need to recognize
as both a privilege and a responsibility.
Turn to the New Testament first,
the book of Ephesians, if you will.
We looked at just a few verses
from Ephesians two this morning.
I wanna look at just a couple of additional verses
here in the book of Ephesians this evening.
And I quoted part of verse number 10
by way of introduction.
But let me just remind you here
in Ephesians chapter number two,
the Bible says this in verse number eight,
for my grace are you saved through faith
and that not of yourselves,
it is the gift of God not of works
lest any man should boast.
For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus
unto good works, which God hath before ordained.
Notice this word that we should walk in them,
that we should walk in them.
This is God's expectation.
If we could use that terminology this evening,
God expects those that have been saved
by the grace of God to use the gifts
that he's given to us and to serve him
because we are his workmanship
and we are to serve with good works.
Again, not so that we can be saved
for we know the scriptures just simply,
plainly revealed to us that we cannot be saved
by our good works, nor can our good works keep us saved.
I'm thankful that I'm saved by the grace of God
and I'm kept by the power of God.
And that's truth that we find not only here
in the book of Ephesians,
but the book of first Peter as well.
You begin to look and we're not gonna look
at the remainder of Ephesians two,
but you understand the apostle Paul
helps the believers to understand
what they were before they got saved
and now what they are because they've been saved.
And by the way, every once in a while,
it's a good reminder for us to be reminded
of what Christ did for us.
I preached this morning about Jesus loves even me
and John, his reminding himself that he is a son of God
and what a blessing that we have that transformation,
what he's done for us.
And I'm no longer in a place as we would read in verse 12,
that I have no hope.
No, I have the hope of eternal life,
that confidence that God has promised to me
and he cannot lie, which we read in Titus
and we just rejoice in understanding that we've been saved.
But I want you to think about this truth
and then connected if you will,
with first Peter chapter number two.
First Peter chapter number two.
And I'm going somewhere this evening.
I hope that we can track with this and follow
the
we can see what the scriptures are teaching us.
And 1 Peter chapter number two,
beginning in verse number one,
the Bible says,
wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile
and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speakings,
as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word
that you may grow thereby.
And so we find right in the believers, right?
As newborn babes,
these that have been saved by the grace of God,
that we desire the sincere milk of the word
that we may grow thereby.
The Bible tells us in verse number seven,
unto you therefore, which believe, he is precious.
We just sang, he's a, hallelujah, what a savior.
I mean, listen,
if you believed on the Lord Jesus Christ this evening,
he is precious, hallelujah.
But I want you to see that in verse number eight,
the Bible, verse nine, excuse me,
the Bible says this,
but ye, so who's he talking to?
Ye, the ones that are born again,
the newborn babes in verse number two,
those that have believed in verse number seven,
that they believe in he, Christ is precious.
We find in verse number nine, he says,
but ye are a chosen generation.
Then notice this phrase, a royal priesthood
and a holy nation, a peculiar people
that ye should show forth the praises of him
who has called you out of darkness
into his marvelous light, hallelujah.
Verse number 10, which in time past were not a people,
but are now the people of God,
which had not obtained mercy,
but now have obtained mercy.
Now look at verse number nine,
and the Bible says that ye,
those that have been saved, born again.
So this evening, preaching to the choir type of a situation,
if you're here and you're saved by the grace of God,
you're a chosen generation, a royal priesthood.
And I wanna focus on that priesthood aspect
because we understand the priesthood of the believer.
It's a Baptist distinctive.
He says that you're a holy nation, a peculiar people.
By the way, that peculiar word
doesn't mean weird or strange.
You ever hear somebody preach it that way?
It's not what the word means.
It means that we belong to Christ.
And I'm thankful I belong to him, amen.
I am his and he is mine, hallelujah.
And we find here that in verse number nine,
we see this truth that we are a royal priesthood.
Now that reminds us again,
now we understand the division, the truth in God's word.
You read the book of Romans, you read the book of Hebrews.
The church is not Israel.
We say that again, the church is not Israel.
Israel and the church are very distinct.
Throughout the scriptures, we find that he came to his own,
his own received him not.
We find if you look in Romans,
the Bible talks about the nation
and how God set them aside.
By the way, it's for a time.
All right, he's not done with Israel.
And so we don't misinterpret 1 Peter chapter two
with this idea of a priesthood
and get confused with the truth of the church
and so on and so forth.
The church is not Israel.
The church is not spiritual Israel.
The church is the bride of Christ,
a distinct entity that we read
that Paul says it this way, a mystery.
Church is a mystery of the Old Testament.
Something that was not yet previously known,
but now is being revealed and understood.
The church is made up of Jews and Gentiles
that have been saved by the grace of God.
I'm thankful for that.
And he says that we're a royal priesthood.
Now, we understand that as we use that terminology
and begin to look at that,
it begins to communicate something to us
with regard to the subject of serving the Lord.
Go back if you will,
and think about the Old Testament priests.
Go to the book of Numbers in chapter 18.
I'm gonna read just a few verses of scripture
here in Numbers chapter 18.
And I wanna remind you about the Old Testament priest.
And the Old Testament priest, of course,
initially they served the Lord where?
In the tabernacle.
And then we find that they would serve the Lord
in the temple.
And you think about the priest
and you understand the tribe
and here as you begin to look here
as God is speaking to Aaron and giving some truth here
and you think about the tribe of Levi
and you understand these things
that are being recorded and revealed to us
and how that he speaks of the Levites here
in this portion of scripture.
And I want you to think about this.
You had to be born into that tribe.
Am I right?
Your lineage, you were born into a tribe
and if you were born into that tribe, then guess what?
You had a responsibility,
but you also had a privilege to serve
in the tabernacle and in the temple.
Was it easy work?
Have you ever read it?
I mean, listen, when all those offerings are being brought
and all the things that are taking place,
I mean, this is a lot of work.
I mean, this is tedious and this is laborious.
When you think about the work and the service
and the Bible talks about in Hebrews chapter number 10
that the law having a shadow of good things to come
and it talks about how they would bring
these offerings every day,
but they could never take away sin
and they just brought them and brought them and brought them
and the work.
What about when the pillar of cloud and the pillar of fire,
the presence of the Lord would move
and they had to pack everything up.
They had to carry it all.
They had to transport it and then set it up again.
This is work.
Amen?
But you were born into the tribe.
You were born in the tribe
and you had a unique privilege
and responsibility to serve the Lord.
So if I'm not born in the tribe,
and I say, but I wanna serve in the tabernacle.
Sorry.
I'm not born in the tribe,
but I wanna serve and do this.
I can't.
So I want you to keep that in mind
because as New Testament believers,
and we'll look at it in a moment,
we're born into the royal priesthood.
Amen?
When we're born again.
And we understand, listen, as a lost person,
I can't truly serve the Lord.
All of my good works are as filthy rags.
Amen?
There's nothing good that I can do because I'm lost.
I can't serve him appropriately, properly,
because I'm not born into the royal priesthood.
And so we look here in Numbers 18, in verse number one,
the Bible says, now the Lord said unto Aaron,
thou and thy sons and thy father's house with thee
shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary.
And thou and thy sons with thee
shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood.
And thy brethren also of the tribe of Levi,
the tribe of thy father, bring thou with thee
that they may be joined unto thee and minister unto thee.
But thou and thy sons with thee shall minister
before the tabernacle of witness.
They shall keep thy charge
and the charge of all the tabernacle.
Only they shall not come nigh the vessels of the sanctuary
and the altar that neither they nor ye also die.
And they shall be joined unto thee
and keep the charge of the tabernacle,
the congregation for all the service of the tabernacle.
And a stranger shall not come nigh unto you.
Verse five, and you shall keep the charge of the sanctuary
and the charge of the altar
that there be no wrath anymore upon the children of Israel.
And I behold, I have taken your brethren,
notice the Levites, from among the children of Israel to you,
they are given as a gift for the Lord,
notice this, to do the service of the tabernacle
of the congregation.
Therefore, thou and thy sons with thee
shall keep your priest office for everything of the altar
and within the veil and ye shall serve.
I have given your priest office unto you
as a service of gift
and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.
Can I remind you of a king of Israel by the name of Uzziah?
Uzziah was a king.
And by the way, if you read about the life of King Uzziah,
he was a man that did much for the people
and for the nation and God blessed him and he prospered.
The Bible tells us that,
but then guess what the King Uzziah
thought he would be able to do?
He thought, I'm gonna go ahead into the altar here
and I'm gonna offer some incense.
He was the king, but he wasn't a priest.
He was king, but he wasn't a priest.
So guess what?
You're not eligible.
That's not your duty.
And the Bible says there were some priests, by the way,
thank God for some men that stood up to get them out
and to confront him and to correct him.
But what happened to Uzziah?
He became a leper.
Amen?
Became a leper.
And we find that here, as we look at Numbers 18,
we begin to see the Old Testament priest
and we begin to understand as God is speaking here to Aaron
and we look at the book of Hebrews
and we think about the Levitical priesthood,
the Aaronic priesthood,
and we understand that Jesus is our great high priest.
And by the way, he doesn't come from that tribe.
He comes from the tribe of Judah.
He's a priest and after the order of Melchizedek,
and I can't get into all that this evening
from the book of Hebrews,
but it's a glorious truth that we understand.
And he came forth and he offered himself.
Amen?
Once and for all, as we read in Hebrews chapter 10,
but what I want you to grasp this evening
is the truth that we begin to think about
the serve the Lord.
Serve the Lord.
Who was eligible to serve the Lord in the Old Testament?
It was the priest.
When we talk about the tabernacle, when we talk about that aspect of serving, yes, there
were other aspects of serving and you could look at a number of things and the challenges
from Joshua and from Samuel as we began this evening, but when I look at the specific aspect
of service within the tabernacle, service within the temple, it was reserved to a group
of people that were born into a tribe and then when I make the New Testament connection
as we did already of being born again in Ephesians chapter number two and the connection from
1 Peter chapter number two that I am, that you are, if you've been saved this evening,
that you are a royal priesthood, that we have been born into that priesthood when we were
born again and we are to serve the Lord and what a privilege, what a responsibility.
Listen, I'm not trying to criticize any other church or ministry.
I have none on my mind this evening.
If you can think of them, I'm not talking about them because I don't know them personally,
but listen, we don't hire somebody from the outside to play our piano.
Why?
Because I don't want a lost person in here playing the piano.
Amen?
I don't want a lost person in here.
We're not going to go hire people from the outside to come in and do the service of the
Lord.
Amen?
No, no, we want people that are saved.
We want people that are in agreement with our doctrinal statement that are settled and
grounded on the faith.
I'm talking about people, yes, that are growing in their faith, but there's got to be, how
can two walk together except they be agreed, right?
And we understand the importance of that and so we don't go down that path.
I believe that God's church is special and God's church is fitly joined together.
It's a body and God equips and God gives the gifts to the individuals that make up that
church and listen, if there's an area in which there's an absence, an area in which there's
a need, then God is able to raise that person, that individual up and whether that's somebody
that's already sitting within the congregation or somebody that God brings from without,
however God chooses to operate and to work, God will meet that need.
I believe that God's work is to be financed by God's people.
Amen?
Listen, so long as I'm the pastor of this church, we're not having all you can eat pancake
breakfast and sausage and this and that to try to raise money.
No, no, no, no.
The church is financed by the people of God.
That's how God designed it, amen?
And what I'm saying this evening is that we've been saved to serve.
We're the royal priesthood.
We have a unique privilege and a unique responsibility to serve God.
Are there some people that might have some level of training and some ability to be able
to play some instrument, whether it be the piano or some other instrument that they've
been well qualified and so on and so forth, and man, they can play at this place or at
that place and they've got these awards and these accolades, sure, but I want to know
first are they saved?
Does that make sense?
Because the work of God is like nothing else.
And so we find here this evening, we begin to look at this truth, look at the book of
Titus, if you will, and I want to look at a few verses here in Titus and then the book
of Hebrews as we wrap up this evening.
Serve the Lord.
What a privilege.
What a responsibility to serve God.
And the fact that I can serve Him because I've been saved, because I've been born into
that royal priesthood, and now therefore I'm eligible to serve the Lord, I'm responsible,
I'm privileged to be able to serve the Lord, and God has equipped me.
He's given to me a gift as every man hath received the gift, even so minister, who is
every man?
We talked about this in 1 Peter chapter 4.
That's not all of humanity, that's all of the redeemed.
Because when you get saved, you get that spiritual gift as the Holy Ghost giveth to every man
severally as He will.
So we come to the book of Titus, and Paul is writing to Titus here and giving him instruction
with regard to being left in Crete and the things that he is to set in order.
And by the way, the task in which Paul and the Lord give to Titus is a tall task.
But God equips him for it.
Praise God.
Titus wasn't just left on Crete and said, hey, figure it out.
I mean, there's some crazy people over there on the island, but just kind of figure it
out over there.
No, God gives them detailed instruction on what to do and how to ensure that there's
sound doctrine and the importance of it.
But we find that the subject of good works is mentioned here in the book of Titus as
well.
Notice in chapter 2, notice in verse number 14, well, let me read verse 11 starting there.
The Bible says, for the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men.
Praise the Lord.
By the way, the grace of God that appeareth to all men, excuse me, that bringeth salvation
hath appeared to all men, and it teaches us something.
It teaches us that denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously
and godly in this present world.
This idea that we're under grace and we can do what we want is a lie.
It is absolutely false.
The Bible tells us that God's grace teaches us that we're to live godly.
Amen?
Verse 13, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and
our Savior, Jesus Christ.
Are you looking for Him?
Are you waiting for Him?
Are you excited about that expectation that we have?
Listen, I'm going to see Him one day face to face, and I preached about that this morning.
But then notice verse 14, who gave Himself for us that He might redeem us from all iniquity
and purify unto Himself a peculiar people zealous of what?
Of good works.
Zealous of good works.
Again, it already talks about the fact that He's come and He gave Himself for us that
He might redeem us and He might purify unto Himself a peculiar people that that people
would be zealous of good works.
It's not that the people that are zealous of good works get saved.
No, no, no.
The people that get saved, the people that get redeemed are zealous of good works.
He says in chapter number three, notice in verse number eight, the Bible says this, and
in fact, look at verse five, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according
to His mercy He saved us.
Now that settles it right there, does it not?
I mean, it talks about works in this book and it's repeated a few times, but He makes
it abundantly clear, not by works of righteousness, which we have done, but according to His mercy,
He saved us by the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost, which He shed
on us abundantly through Jesus Christ, our Savior, that being justified by His grace,
we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
This is a faithful saying and these things I will that now affirm constantly that they
which have believed in God, those that have been saved, might be careful to maintain good
works.
These things are good and profitable unto men.
That word maintain means to give attention to, not to let it slip or to let it just kind
of be on the back burner.
No, we're going to give attention to it.
We're going to maintain those good works, again, not to get saved, not to stay saved,
but because we're saved.
He says in chapter 3 and verse number 14, notice, and let ours also learn to maintain
good works for necessary uses that they be not unfruitful.
You know that God expects for us to be fruitful.
You ever read John 15?
He expects for us to be fruitful.
By the way, if you plant some type of fruit or vegetable, let's use the truth of a fruit
tree, you plant that tree and you expect to have what?
Fruit.
Kind of makes sense.
You don't buy a whole large portion, parcel of land and plant all types of trees and you're
going to have an orchard.
You're going to do that and you understand that I'm going to plant apples and it takes
a number of years before they begin to produce fruit and then all of a sudden we're past
that number of years where they should be bearing fruit and you say, well, I mean, it's
a beautiful vineyard of trees.
No, man, you want there to be fruit.
We have a garden and we're soon, in fact, we were, Holly and I were walking through
the store the other day and I saw all the seeds that were out there and I said, honey,
it's getting soon.
Right?
Soon, if you want to have a garden this summer, I know there's still snow out there and it's
cold and so we're not thinking, but soon we're going to be planting gardens.
And guess what I want with my garden out there?
I'm going to plant some tomato plants.
Why?
So that I have pretty plants?
No, so I have tomatoes.
God expects fruit.
He expects fruit.
That ye, that they be not unfruitful.
Who is it that allows us to bear fruit?
Well, God.
He can't bear fruit.
on ourselves. He works in us and through us. So we see as a New Testament believer this
idea of these good works in the book of Hebrews, notice if you will, and we'll close up in
Hebrews 13. In Hebrews 13, and look at a few verses here with me in closing this evening.
In Hebrews 13, and look at verse 15, the Bible says this, Hebrews 13 and verse 15,
By Him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually. That is the
fruit of our lips, giving thanks to His name. By the way, do you see how he uses the terminology
of a sacrifice? And again, you look at the book of Hebrews and you understand all of
the parallels back to the Old Testament and how the Old Testament is a shadow of good
things to come, but yet we, as we look at and compare Scripture with Scripture because
of my position in Christ and because of what He's done for me, that now we that are saved
by the grace of God, we can bring this in offering a sacrifice. And he says that it's
praise to God continually, the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to His name. Verse 16,
But to do good and to communicate, forget not. For with such, notice what he says, sacrifices
God is well pleased. You ever read about some of the Old Testament sacrifices? You read
through the books of Leviticus and begin to read about these sacrifices, talk about a
well, this fragrance, this savory aspect of the sacrifice that would be given. And here
the Bible says that God is well pleased. Speaking about these sacrifices, look at verse 21.
The Bible says this, Make you perfect in every good work to do His will, working in you that
which is well pleasing in His sight through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and
ever. Amen. Every man's received the gift. Even so, minister, part one, part two, we
spent two weeks looking at it. And then this evening, serve the Lord. We finished last
week by talking about, I've understood that there are spiritual gifts. I've understood
what the spiritual gifts are. I've gone through the process of God revealed to me what my
spiritual gift is, but then I got to use it. I got to put into action. I have to use the
gift that God has given to me. And at times there are, and I mentioned this, that there
were some that maybe you never heard about spiritual gifts. You didn't know what your
spiritual gift was. And then I had this man-made test that I would be happy to give. And some
asked for it and I provided it for them. But if you know what your spiritual gift is, you
need to be using it for God's glory and for the edification of the believers. Those are
the two purposes of the gifts. So we're going to think about, I have a gift and how do I
use my gift? And maybe tonight you don't really know, and this isn't an exhaustive list, but
oftentimes we're going to think about, well, what could I do? Let me just give you a few
ideas of some things that you could do. In our church, in Fellowship Baptist Church,
some areas in which we could use some servants of the Lord to get involved in serving the
Lord. We have a music ministry. Now, if you can't carry a tune like I can't really carry
a tune, don't go to Brother Pierre and say, I'm volunteering to sing a solo next week,
alright? And that's just not a great idea. It just makes him have less hair and so on
and so forth. But the reality, you understand, some people have been equipped in that manner
and they can serve in that manner. There's some requirements and some qualifications,
but listen, if I have been given a gift and there's some levels of qualifications or requirements
that I have to adhere to in order to use what God's equipped me with, man, I want to, okay,
that's great. Let's do it. Praise the Lord. Music ministry. Sound ministry. Joseph's getting
ready to go to the Air Force and he's been working in the sound ministry. That's going
to leave a gap. I'm just being transparent. I appreciate the fact that he's done it. We
got Brother Jim that works so tirelessly back there in the sound ministry and he does so
much to keep our system up and running. I can't even begin to understand probably 10%
of all that he does. I'm just being honest with you. And Holly and Fernando have been
jumping in and helping out. But man, Fernando, we're trying to get him doing a Spanish ministry.
If he's doing a Spanish ministry, he can't do sound ministry here. It's a commitment.
I want to serve the Lord in that capacity. Let me mention this one. Cleaning ministry.
It's a cleaning. How many of you like going into a clean bathroom? I mean, that's just
a simple thing, right? I don't know if any of you have traveled to Buc-ee's. There's
like a cult following of Buc-ee's, right? It's just kind of a weird thing. But if you've
been to Buc-ee's, you'll know something about Buc-ee's. Yeah, the brisket, the this, the
they have clean bathrooms. I mean, they literally pride them. So have you ever, and I'm not
trying to be inappropriate here, but have you ever been traveling and you've stopped
at a rest stop because someone needs to use the bathroom and you go in and you're like,
yeah, we're going to keep on going. Like it is not safe to go into that building. I'm
just being honest, right? So guess what? You go into a clean bathroom, a clean auditorium,
whatever. Somebody had to do that. It's just the way it works. And we thank the Lord for
maintenance. There's maintenance things all the time that need to be tended to. God has
blessed us with a property and I'm thankful for God's blessing and God's provision, but
things break. Things break at your house. Things break at God's house. It's just the
way it is. So there's maintenance that needs to be done. There's opportunities with regard
to maintenance when we have during the summer months of the grass. You know what's something
about grass? It grows and it needs to be cut. Just simple things, but it takes somebody
to be willing to do it, to be willing to go and serve the Lord in that way. I'd rather
be a doorkeeper. Remember we looked at that in Psalm 84. God, how could I serve in what
capacity? I can't. I've had people, I can't do this. I can't do that. Don't focus on what
you can't do. What can you do? Let me talk about teaching. Some teaching opportunities.
Some discipleship opportunities. You know, we got some people that want to be discipled.
I just personally as one person, I can't be everywhere and do everything. It's impossible.
I could not be at the funeral on Friday. I let the family know well in advance, I can
do any day, but I can't do this. They said, that's when we're going to do it. They still
have not invented a way to be in two places at one time. It's just impossible. And so
there are people that want to be discipled. And guess what? If somebody's hungry to be
discipled, you know what I want to do? Strike while the iron's hot. Have you ever heard
that term? Amen. Like if I'm like, well, let me put you on a waiting list. Then what happens?
They grow cold. They don't get discipled. They don't grow. Guess who's responsible and
accountable for that? Well, me and us. But I can't. Discipleship is such an important
aspect of ministry. Outreach. The opportunity to be able to go out and give the gospel.
We had a family, I don't know the dynamics, but we had some visitors here this morning.
I'll say it that way. Those visitors here this morning said, I got an invitation on
my door. And I thought, hallelujah. Praise the Lord. We go out and we put invitations
out. Sometimes we go door knocking and no one answers and we leave an invitation. Sometimes
we just go blitz a community and leave invitations, door hangers. And I began to think, as they
said, I got an invitation on my door. I began to think, man, we haven't actually gone out
in a while. There's been a number of Saturdays where we haven't been able to go. There was
holidays and all the things going on, so on and so forth, weather and bitter cold and
whatever it is. I thought, man, it's been a while since we went out and did door hangers.
So in my mind, I'm up here thinking, as we're singing, man, I wonder where they live when
they got the door hanger. Because I think that way. I just think those things. I hope
they turn in a visitor's card so I can see the address because then I'll be able to have
an idea of when we left the door hanger. And they did fill out a visitor's card. And you
know, the best I can tell, it's probably been about a year since we left a door hanger
on their door. Listen, that's just, I just said on Wednesday night, I said this about
the Holland family from Norway that they have a place and that means they can put their
address on their tracks. And because oftentimes the person I give an invitation to this week
doesn't come to church this Sunday. It's just, it's just the experience that I've had in
life in ministry. I don't know exactly the date that we left the door hanger on that
door, but they came to church today. No church background, no church home, never going to
church anywhere, and they hear the gospel plain and simple. And we're looking forward
to a follow-up opportunity. What I'm saying is that we need some people to be engaged
in outreach. We support missionaries and desire for them to go and reach their Jerusalem and
reach their area that they're called to. And this is our Jerusalem. It's our opportunity.
Again the list isn't exhaustive. We could go on and on and talk about different opportunities
of ministry. But this evening I want you to understand those two principles of serving
the Lord. It is a privilege and it is a responsibility. And if you've been saved as I've been saved,
we have been born again and we are a royal priesthood. And as a royal priesthood, we
priesthood, I now have the opportunity, the privilege, and the responsibility of serving
the Lord.
When I was lost, I couldn't do any service for God.
But now that I'm saved, I'm not doing it so I can stay saved, but oh boy, I'm doing it
because I am saved, because I want to serve my God.
And I want to serve Him, as Samuel said on two occasions in 1 Samuel 12, with all my
heart, all in, serving the Master.
What a privilege.
Let's pray.
Father, we love you.
Thank you for loving us.
Thank you, God, for the privilege of having a Bible, to be able to look at Scripture and
to be able to interpret Scripture with Scripture and to be challenged.
God, I pray that you would help us to have a perspective that is biblical when it comes
to serving you, Lord, that we would see it as both a privilege and responsibility.
God, we would be engaged in the work of the Lord, that we'd put our hand to the plow,
get involved in the work in whatever area you've equipped us to do so, that we would
be doers, not hearers, that we would serve you day by day.
Lord, for the purpose of bringing honor and glory to thy name and edifying the believers,
I pray that in the moment of invitation that you have your will and way, for it's in Christ's
name we pray.
Would you stand with me?
Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.
Kimberly's going to play quietly on the piano.
Maybe you just want to come and thank God for the privilege of serving the Lord.
Maybe the Lord kind of challenged and convicted you a little bit this evening.
I got to get more involved in serving the Lord.
God has given me, has bestowed His grace upon me, and I want to be a good steward of His
manifold grace.
I want to be engaged in the work of the Lord.
As Kimberly plays, the altar is open.